MICCAI 2010

Reviews of submission #1213: "Shell Model for Reconstruction and
Real-Time Simulation of Thin Anatomical Structures"

------------------------ Submission 1213, Review 1 ------------------------

Reviewer:           external

Overall Recommendation

   Good - Accept 

The review

   **Relevance

   The topic of the paper is highly relevant to several areas of medical
   image computing, and will be of interest to MICCAI attendees.

   **Originality & soundness

   An efficient shell finite element formulation incorporating cubic shape
   functions is described. The use of the elements for reconstructing
   anatomical models is described, also. By virtue of their high order shape
   functions they are able to reproduce high curvature geometry accurately
   with very few elements. Such tools could find applications in many areas
   of surgical simulation and medical image computing.

   As discussed by the authors, shell formulations are useful for modelling
   thin structures, e.g. membranes, of which there are many biological
   examples. Whereas solid element formulations (tetrahedra, hexahedra, etc)
   are commonly used in surgical simulation, efficient shell models have
   been conspicuously absent. As such, this work represents an important
   contribution.

   One query regarding the coupling to tetrahedra (or, presumably, any other
   solid elements): essentially, a contact condition is employed, but I was
   wondering if it is feasible/difficult to impose a more direct coupling -
   perhaps having the shells and tets sharing nodes? I think this would be
   more appropriate than a contact-based coupling in many cases, such as,
   for example, modelling skin attached to underlying tissue. Perhaps some
   comments on this could be added?

   **Clarity of presentation

   The presentation is clear, concise and logical. Explanations are easy to
   follow.

   Some minor misspellings:
   - pg 5, para 2, line 1: insure -> ensure
   - pg 7, second line before sect 5: detailled -> detailed

   Also, I think reference 8 is incorrectly listed.

------------------------ Submission 1213, Review 2 ------------------------

Reviewer:           external

Overall Recommendation

   Good - Accept 

The review

   General:
   The paper describes an approach for reconstruction and real-time
   simulation of anatomical structures by employing a thin shell model. The
   basis is a co-rotational triangular shell model which has been proposed
   earlier in a publication of the same authors. Further, collision handling
   and reconstruction are described.
   The paper is written fine, the material is presented in a clear way
   (especially considering the strict page limitations). The only drawback
   of the submission is that the contribution over the previous work [7] is
   left unclear. Still, the reviewer suggests to accept the paper for
   publication at MICCAI.

   The reviewer has the following comments:
   - Related work: "The use of fast shell-based modelling [...] was recently
   introduced in computer graphics with the work of Choi et al [...]". This
   sounds a bit naive, as thin shell modeling has been intensively
   researched in computer graphics for years. Thus either more references
   should be given, or the phrase should be mitigated.
   - The contribution and main differences over the own work of the authors
   [7] should be detailed out.
   - The following reference is missing: Comas et al., "A shell model for
   Real-Time Simulation of Intra-ocular Implant Deployment", Biomedical
   Simulation, 2010. The work must be cited and the differences between that
   work and the submission must be detailed.

   - Collision handling: The contact handling of thin shells is particularly
   challenging since a concept such as 'penetration depth' does not exist
   for non-volumetric objects. Thus, many authors have resorted to
   continuous collision handling techniques. This is particularly important
   if large time-steps (such as the proposed 40ms) are employed. The authors
   should mention this issue. In addition, the reviewer would like to see
   timings of the collision detection, which is supposed to be very
   time-consuming. 

   Typos:
   - "target non noise-sensitive" -> "target non-noise-sensitive" (consider
   re-formulating the phrase)
   - "a important decimation" -> "an important decimation"

------------------------ Submission 1213, Review 3 ------------------------

Reviewer:           external

Overall Recommendation

   Short of acceptable - Probably reject 

The review

   I fail to capture the main message that the authors want to send. Is this
   some variant of a shell deformation model for thin structures or surface
   reconstruction by fitting sort of parametric patches? Unfortunately, the
   authors hide most of the methodology behind the anonymity: "A complete
   description and validation of our co-rotational triangular shell finite
   element model is available in one of our previous publication". The paper
   should be restructured such that the complete method is accessible
   without violating the anonymity requirement. Coupling between shell and
   volume models on the example of Glisson's capsule is a very interesting
   problem, but unfortunately, it is again unclear what is tackled here
   exactly, mechanics (FEM?) or geometry (Hausdorff?). Unfortunately again,
   the conclusions remain unclear: "We propose a framework for real-time
   modelling of thin anatomical structures." What modelling, physical
   behavior or geometric representation? It is possible that the authors
   might have something interesting to report on, I just can not find it
   clearly presented in the paper.


